54 ΤΗΕ CHILD OF THE POEM

sixteenth Epode of Horace was published
separately, or rather, as we may perhaps
say, was known to literary circles before the
book ol Epodes as a whole, and probably at
the time ol the Perusian war in 41 B.c., he
explains its obvious likeness to the Fourth
Eclogue by supposing that the latter was in
some sense an answer to it. Horace, in
despair at the new outbreak of civil war,
had fancifully suggested that the Italian

tace should migrate like the Phocaean of ,
old to the far west, where, as Sertorius had
been told in Spain, lay the islands of the
blest. Virgil answers him thus (Ι quote

Professor Ramsay’s words): “Seek not the
better age in a Iabled island of the west.
It is here and now with us. The child
already born in Italy will inaugurate it and
live in it. The period upon which Italy is
now entering more than fulfils in real life
the dream ol a Golden Age perpetuated in
a distentor fabulous island. The marvels
which are told ol that island are being
realised now in Italy under the new order,
through the influence ol peace and prudence
and organisation. The new Roman genera·
tion will in this way destroy every noxious

 

